How can we now output the user entered key-value combination?
We can dynamically store it with this syntax here
but how can we output it?
Well of course you learned how you can access dynamic values, you can also do that with the square bracket
notation.
You can set text content here to the title plus, maybe then a dash that separates it from another
value and then movie.info and then square brackets
and now here we got the extra name right,
that's where we store the property name the user entered so we can use that here, right?
No, this won't work because extra name is a constant in add movie handler, in this function,
we're now in a different function and as you learned, variables and constants are block scoped so we can't
use extra name from this function in this function.
Now I want to be honest, a dirty
way around it would be to turn this in a global variable which you set up there which you assign here
and then use here.
This would be dirty and it would not even work because keep in mind that add movie handler is called
multiple times for different movies where every time, extra name could hold a new value.
Now if we only have one global variable where we store this value, then this will always hold the latest
value the user entered, not all values.
So here if we can output this, we would also only output the latest value,
so that is certainly not a solution we can use,
instead we can do something different.
Let me clear this line here and
instead let's add a new variable, maybe named text, where for the moment I just hold movie.info.title
which is the property we can certainly access because we hardcoded it, we as a developer so we
know it will be there and then maybe add plus and then a dash with whitespace around it
and now I want to go through all properties I have in new movie.info and I know that every property
which is not title will be a property added by the user.
Of course that will only be exactly one property but still, that's the user entered property.
Now how can we go through all key-value pairs in an object?
You learned that in the control structures module,
we have a special for loop for that, for/in. With that we can go through all keys in an object and in this
case, the object for which I want to go is movie.info,
so this nested object inside of movie. This will now go through all properties I have in there and that
will of course include the title property which I don't want to add again,
so in there we can add an if check and check if key is not equal to title and
now here this has to be a string because otherwise if you write it like this, Javascript would look for
a variable named title which it won't find in this function and it would then use the value stored
in this variable for this comparison.
So instead since keys are strings as you learned, we compared it to a string here
and if the key is not title, then we know we're looking at the property the user entered. Well and this
is then what I want to add to my text.
So then we can set text equal to text plus and then maybe a string literal here using this notation with
the back ticks where we can inject the value of key because that will be a key name the user entered,
so whatever the user entered in this field and then maybe a colon,
now this is just a part of that string here, not some Javascript syntax
and then the value and the value of course is what was entered in this field here and we can access
this value by accessing movie info and then with square brackets, the key. This is using this dynamic
property accessing logic, where key is derived dynamically as part of this for/in loop, movie info is
the object and we want to access the value for the key with that name that is stored in that key constant
here
and we do that with the square brackets.
So with that, we dynamically access the value for whichever property name the user chose. Well and with
that after the for loop, we can set movie el text content equal to text, so equal to that variable which
we adjust inside of that for/in loop. If we do that and we save that and have a look at this and reload
the page and I enter Javascript here, The Complete Guide, level 5 and click add movie, you see this
is getting output down there as well.
So this now works and this is how we can take advantage of this dynamic property accessing logic and
of the for/in loop to work with property names which I as a developer don't know in advance because
the user could enter anything in here and therefore I'm not trying to guess what the user will enter
here,
instead we just loop through it, excludes the property we know that will be there and then just
dynamically access the value for the property which we don't know in advance.